# Traditional-ML-vs-Deep-Learning

Image identification powered by innovative machine learning has already been embedded in several fields with impressive success. It is used for automated image organization of large databases, facial recognition on social networks such as Facebook. Image recognition makes image classification for stock websites easier, and even fuels marketers’ creativity by enabling them to craft interactive brand campaigns. 

And recently, Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have emerged as powerful machine learning models that exhibit major differences from traditional approaches for image classification. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) is a special architecture of artificial neural networks, proposed by Yann LeCun in 1988 and CNNs coupled with computational advancements has pushed the limits of what was possible in the domain of Digital Image Processing. 

However, we cannot undermine the traditional techniques which had been undergoing progressive development in years prior to the rise of Deep Learning. Classification algorithms such as logistics regression, decision tree along with the ensemble and boosting techniques have performed exceptionally well at some places. Through this, we will try to analyse the performance of various deep learning and traditional machine learning approaches for image classification and compare the results for the same. 

Here we start with creating a framework to break down images into pixels and then design a linear classifier to check its performance. Then, we will proceed with the traditional algorithms i.e. Decision Trees, Random Forests followed by Gradient Boosting and check if they can capture the non-linear relationships among pixels. And finally, we will use CNNs for classification and evaluate its performance. 
